It's time for another Framework Aside.
Let's talk a bit about Whitespace.
Okay, Big Word Alert.
Whitespace, invisible characters
that create literal space
in your written code,
like carriage returns, tabs, or spaces.
They make your code more readable.
But of course that's not what's really
being executed on the computer system.
But we can use whitespace to help
ourselves, and JavaScript, its syntax
parser, is very liberal about what it
allows when it comes to whitespace.
And we can take advantage of it to help
ourselves out in our written code.
For example, let's say I have a few
variables that I'm declaring in my code.
And maybe I
have another one that's an object literal.
[SOUND] Then I'll just output this person,
for example.
So when I run this code here's my object
and I've declared some variables.
That's nice.
If I come back to this
a long time later or
some other developer is working on it,
It's good for me to put in comments, so
that others can understand more easily
what the code is that I've written, or
I myself can figure it
out if it's been a while.
JavaScript is very liberal about
whitespace, so I could put comments for
example, between the var and the firstname
by just putting some carriage returns.
The syntax parser sees
these double slashes and
ignores everything until
it hits the next line.
The rest of this is just completely
ignored by the JavaScript engine.
So I could put extra space there.
I'm just gonna, some sample comments.
I could have a couple of comments here.
[SOUND] And so I can use whitespace
very liberally to clarify my code.
I can even do it inside
an object literal syntax.
So I might do this.
And maybe I just want to make a note.
Let's run this.
Still runs the same.
Because the code that's executed
is exactly the same as the code
that was executed the first time.
The syntax parser just
ignored all this whitespace.
When you crack open the source
code of some famous libraries and
framework, you'll see a lot
of usage of white space.
And a lot of usage of comments.
And it can be a little off-putting.
It can throw you off a bit at first.
When you see just this line
hanging out there with a comma and
another line a ways later.
Maybe there's a lot of
comments explaining.
And then a big bunch of comments again and
just another line hanging out by itself.
But don't be intimidated by that.
Don't be thrown off.
>> Just realize that if you back up and
take a good look at the characters that
the JavaScript engine will actually
care about, in the end this is just
a simple list of variables being declared,
and this is just a simple object literal.
But the programmer is taking advantage of
how liberal JavaScript is with accepting
whitespace to teach us something.
So again when you see this kind of thing
when you look at the source code of
some complex JavaScript, be thankful.
That means you have a lot of comments
that can help you understand it.
And don't get bogged down
by the whitespace itself.
All right.
One other thing.
You should do this.
As much as you can, comment up your code,
make your code readable.
Make your code understandable.
You won't regret it in the future.
All right.
Let's move on.